my name is Marty Lyle we're located in
northwest Iowa about 50 miles east and
north a little bit of Sioux City I off
the western border I am the manager of a
company called wholesome quality CAF LLC
it is a company that is acts as a
liaison between dairies and and growers
in the country to procure dairy
replacement heifers raise them for their
dairies and send them back to their
respective dairies at different phases
of production we've been in business a
little over four years we started with
my own dairy that I'm an owner in we
knock about 1,500 cows we realize
initially right away that we needed to
have control over how our females were
raised so that we can enhance our
genetics enhance our health be able to
have a system in place so that we can
monitor and track our females at
different phases of production given the
weather as it is in northwest Iowa we
want to try to provide facilities that
are conducive to express a genetic
potential of these females in this type
of facility which led us to travel down
a path to look at steel barns wood steel
barns and this type of structure or
cover all systems we currently today
have approximately forty two hundred
head of females in our production system
at various stages of growth and
development and that is from from birth
to 22 months prior to calving or excuse
me two months prior to calving where
they go back to their respective dairies
and they cab out and hopefully their we
make a good product and they want to
continue to do business with us today we
have spent about two and a half million
dollars on capital investments like this
to rear these heifers in there's a it's
a professional environment there's a
commitment to doing this and this is
what led us to look at using cover
buildings we have cover all buildings
that we house our babies in that we
house our ten-week-old calves in that we
house our 20 week old calves in that we
house our 6 month old cattle in all over
Northwest Iowa it's been it's worked
very very well let's to say the least
it's worked very well that is why as
we've expanded we've doubled the
capacity of wholesome quality calf since
its first inception and we have added on
more coverall buildings into this system
because they work they're cost-effective
the longevity is good the warranties on
them are good for rearing these animals
especially from six months down to
babies we like cold facilities that are
naturally ventilated with a coverall
type of barn with the hoop structure the
way we get the heat rise with the
natural convection with the natural
cross ventilation and they work very
very well which has prompted us in the
year 2004 as a company of wholesome
quality calf to take a look at the dairy
beef side of things as we all know that
with BSE that happened in the United
States what they call Mad Cow has caused
us to take a look at and close down our
borders for a short period of time so
that we can get a handle on what's going
on there which has had a direct impact
on our beef market the slaughter market
and all of a sudden the Packers and the
feed loss in northwest Iowa and
Minnesota and South Dakota have realized
that Holstein dairy beef is very very
good also and it is out here and it is
abundant so wholesome quality calf as a
company in the year 2000 for the spring
of 2004 we decided to expand our
operations to include a dairy beef
division we are currently adding growers
to raise dairy beef for us from birth to
about 320 pounds and then we have a
company that buys them from us and then
they take them and feed them out from
their slaughter we are adding growers
just virtually weekly that are building
brand new facilities to raise these
calves
in from birth to 320 pounds and 100% of
them to date have been cover all
facilities so we've added three in
northwest Iowa four in Minnesota and two
in South Dakota in the last seven months
and they're all building brand new
facilities a couple of them are remodel
jobs but they're adding cover all barns
into that remodel job also so we're
going to be building facilities that's a
two barn system it'll be either a pair
of cover all nurse arees and what we
call a transition barn or it'll be one
big nursery and one transition learn and
then they we have all in all out flow to
help and improve our health status and
growth performance for these guys so
they have an opportunity to make a
couple bucks when I go to a grower
prospect and we sit down and discuss the
options that they have available to them
looking at the site where they want to
build barns at do I recommend cover all
barns and no I do not we try to stay out
of that game you might say but in the
past and I think it's demonstrating
going into the future these barns work
well enough and they're competitively
priced enough to where when well in the
last seven months we've added six or
seven new growers on board and they've
evaluated steel barns they've evaluated
wood and steel barns and they've
evaluated coverall barns and all six of
them that we're bringing under contract
adhere all build and cover all barns so
it's not a matter of what I want it's a
matter of what our grower prospects or
our new growers that are coming on board
want so I try to stay out of that
although I know based on my experience
and based on what we see going into the
future that coverall barns I mean they
work so no I don't recommend nor am I
getting paid by Charlie roll for cover
all to do that they just these grower
prospects are making up their mind on
their own and when they choose their
choosing cover all barns it works just
pretty much as simple as that